# Southampton Solent University

# Assessment Brief

#
Assessment Details AE1

| Unit Title: | Web Design |
| --- | --- |
| Unit Code: | SWD500 |
| Unit Leader: | Martin Reid |
| Level: | 5 (FHEQ) |
| Assessment Title: | **Responsive Design Report** |
| Assessment Number: | AE1 |
| Assessment Type: | Project Report |
| Restrictions on Time/Length : | 1500 (-/+10%) words with visual examples |
| Individual/Group: | Individual |
| Assessment Weighting: | 30% |
| Issue Date: | Week commencing 28th September 2015 |
| Hand In Deadline: | **Friday 18th December 2015 22:00hrs GMT** |
| Planned Feedback Date: | Within 4 weeks |
| Mode of Submission: | Online **Turnitin** |
| Number of copies to be submitted: | One handbook |
|
# Anonymous Marking
  |
# This assessment will be exempt from anonymous marking as it falls within an exempt category under the University's Anonymous Marking Policy.
 |

# Assessment Task  - Responsive Design – Research & Planning

_" __Mobile phones have reached a critical mass around the world, serving as constant companions for consumers regardless of demographics or geography__."  _**(****N ****ielsen** **2013)**

## "Fluid grids, flexible images, and media queries are the three technical ingredients for responsive web design [...] Rather than quarantining our content into disparate, device-specific experiences, we can use media queries to progressively enhance our work within different viewing contexts." (Marcotte 2010)

More and more people are using mobile devices to access on-line data, recent statistics from Ericsson (2014) put the total global mobile subscriptions at 6.8 billion of which 2.4 billion were for mobile broadband which seen a 35% increase in 12 months.

Responsive Web Design (RWD) and/or Adaptive Web Design (AWD) is now essential part of a web designer's work flow, with many such as zurb.com (n.d.) arguing a "Mobile first" approach from the onset.

**Project Scenario**

**Creation of a fully responsive/adaptive website which adheres to current design trends and technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, Frameworks & jQuery –**  **You can incorporate frameworks and libraries within your site but they should be used to complement your own code rather than using them "off the peg"**

Students are free to choose a topic for their site as long as what is presented covers the following:

1. 1.Typography
2. 2.Photographs/images (bitmap & vector)
3. 3.Layout variations – grids structures & priority of content over different devices
4. 4.Navigation – attention to mobile device navigation



**Project Outputs**

1. 1.6 pages (or screens)
2. 2.Main and sub-navigation that works on both desk-top and mobile device
3. 3.The use of modern production methods such as HTML5, CSS3, Frameworks & jQuery (you do not need to include them all and you can use others
4. 4.Responsive design should include progression enhancement for high density screens and tablet devices in different orientations such as portrait/landscape.
5. 5.Implementation of responsive/adaptive images
6. 6.Implementation of responsive/adaptive typography
7. 7.Concept should adhere to current design trend for responsive design
8. 8.Concept should adhere to Human Computer Interaction (HCI) for both desktop and mobile interfaces.
9. 9.Concept should use a grid system that priorities content for different "break points"




**Approach**

Students will need to communicate their ideas through the production of a report in which they will provide a **rationale** for their design and present pre-production documents for the final product.

**Rationale - Research**

**Discuss** issues concerning the production of responsive websites to gain an **understanding** of different design principles and methods.

Conclude your **research** with **analysi** s of the potential options to use creativity combined with technical skill to develop innovatively designed responsive concepts that show awareness of relevant principles and methods.

**Criteria for success**
Students must **create** a checklist of project goals derived from their research and analysis conclusions. The checklist can be presented within a list, table or rubric, which should include between 5 and 10 goals. The completed list will be included in the Project Production (AE2) submission.

**Pre-production - Planning**

Outline how you would apply these specialised skills to the **produce** a fully responsive website through the production of a specification, methods and wire-framing



**Suggested report layout:**

1. 1.Coversheet/title page
2. 2.Abstract
3. 3.Contents page
4. 4.Acronyms
5. 5.List of figures
6. 6.Introduction
7. 7.Research & analysis
8. 8.Methods – Inc. projected breakdown of **74hrs for both AE1 & AE2** : research analysis, reporting & production
9. 9.Specification
10. 10. Criteria for success – in table list form which will be re-visited in AE2
11. 11.Wireframe planning – Low, Medium and High fidelity concepts
12. 12.References
13. 13.Bibliography
14. 14.Appendices

1500 words (-/+10%) plus visual research examples.  Turnitin online submission through MyCourse

**References:**

**ERICSSON**. 2014. _Ericsson Mobility Report._[online] [viewed 5 September 2014].  Available from:   [http://www.ericsson.com/res/docs/2014/ericsson-mobility-report-august-2014-interim.pdf](http://www.ericsson.com/res/docs/2014/ericsson-mobility-report-august-2014-interim.pdf)

**MARCOTTE** , E.,2010. _Responsive Web Design._ [online] [viewed 5 September 2014].  Available from: [http://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design](http://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design)

# NIELSEN, J.,2013. _How the mobile consumer connects around the globe._ [online] [viewed 5 September 2014].  Available from: [http://www.nielsen.com/us/en/insights/news/2013/how-the-mobile-consumer-connects-around-the-globe.html](http://www.nielsen.com/us/en/insights/news/2013/how-the-mobile-consumer-connects-around-the-globe.html)

#### ZURB.COM. n.d. _Mobile First -_ _An adaptive, future-friendly solution for website design._

# [online] [viewed 5 September 2014]. [http://zurb.com/word/mobile-first](http://zurb.com/word/mobile-first)Assessment criteria and Learning Outcomes

# SWD500 AE1 Report – Responsive Web Site/App

|
**Presentation, Reporting, Referencing & Citation.** Learning outcome: **T1**  weighting: **10%**   **Communicate** information, ideas and data effectively using appropriate media.
 |
| --- |
|
1. a)Cover sheet, contents, abstract (short introduction), introduction/background,
header/footer, 1.5 line spacing, correct word count (-/+10%) & page numbers
 |
|
1. b)Harvard style (Author-Date) in-text referencing, reference list, bibliography
list, organised appendices and figures.
 |
|
1. c)Written in an appropriate academic style i.e. 3rd person.
  |
|
**Research & Analysis** Learning outcome: **K1**  weighting: **35%**   **Discuss** a wide range of issues within web design, drawing on a broad understanding of different design principles and methods.  |
|
1. a)Evidence of independent research & critical analysis.
 |
|
1. b)Presentation of visual examples.
 |
|
1. c)Evaluation & exclusion of irrelevant material.
 |
|
1. d)A good range of current topics/practice addressed & cited
 |
|   |
|
**Methods & Specification** Learning outcome: **C1  ** weighting: **20%**  Use creativity and judgement in order to **develop** innovative design concepts that show **awareness** of relevant principles and methods  **Apply** specialised digital media skills to the production of creative screen based media.
1. a)Devised/chosen method of production/time management 74 hours in total
2. b)Assessed & listed project design & technical specification
3. c)Criteria for success – 5-10 project goals in list, table & rubric form
  |
|
**Design & Planning** Learning outcome: **P1  ** weighting: **35%**   **Apply** specialised digital media skills to the production of creative screen based media.
1. a)Generation of ideas: Rough Low Fidelity hand drawn planning/wireframes.
2. b)Rough idea refinement; Medium Fidelity wireframes/flow charts.
3. c)Production High Fidelity final post-production concepts/assets
    |

**Assessment criteria – SWD500 AE1 – Report Responsive Web Site/App**

|   | **A1-A2** | **A3-A4** | **B1-B3** | **C1-C3** | **D1-D3** | **F1-F3** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1.  **Presentation, Reporting, Referencing & Citation. LO: T1 (10%)** | Exceptional presentation and organisation of work and lucid communication in all contexts. Exemplary referencing & citation. | Excellent presentation and organisation of work and lucid communication in most contexts. Referencing comprehensive | Presentation and organisation of work appropriate to context and purpose Referencing consistent and accurate. | Satisfactory organisation and presentation of work, communications mostly appropriate to the context. Referencing largely consistent. | Organisation and presentation of work and communications adequate in most contexts, with some mistakes. Some errors in referencing ** ** | Elements of disorganisation/poor presentation. Errors or omissions in referencing, or non or substantial errors |
|   |
| **2.  Research & Analysis LO: K1 (35%)** | Excellent investigative skills, and research skills beyond expectations for this level | Systematic and thorough investigation generates well‐founded conclusions/practical solutions showing some originality or creativity | Thorough investigation generates well‐founded conclusions/practical solutions with some aspect of creativity or originality. | Investigation generates satisfactory conclusions/practical solutions with limited creativity/originality. | Basic investigation generates adequate, mainly derivative conclusions/practical solutions, adequately argued/evidenced. | Basic or poor investigation generates few or partial and often derivative or erroneousconclusions/practical solutions or none, insufficiently or inadequatelyargued/evidenced. |
|   |
| **3.  Methods & Specification LO:C1  ** weighting: **30%** | Applies and refines appropriate methods to address/solve complex, unfamiliar and unpredictable problems. | Selects and applies appropriate methods to address/solve complex, unfamiliar and unpredictable issues/problems | .Applies appropriate methods to address/solve complex issues/problems, some unfamiliar/unpredictable | Uses appropriate (largely given) methods to analyse unfamiliar/unpredictable and complex issues/problems, with some evaluation and reformatting of information | Uses appropriate given methods to analyse unfamiliar/unpredictable issues/problems, with limited evaluation |  Superficial analysis of unfamiliar/unpredictable issues/problems, lacking in evaluation. Relies on description, no analysis or evaluation |
|   |
| **4. Design &Planning** Learning outcome: **P1  ** weighting: **35%**   | Consistent competence, in all the required specialised, with indications of exceptional ability in some & understanding of professional contexts and expectations. | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised  skills, exceeds level expectations in some aspects. | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised skills, with indications of more developed ability in some areas. | Achieves a basic level of competence in all the required specialised skills, with more developed capability in at least one area. | Achieves basic competence in all the required specialised  skills, with little awareness of professional contexts and expectations. | Fails/Marginally fails to achieve basic competence in (some of) the required  skills, with only slight awareness of professional contexts and expectations. |

**Derived from the Level 5 generic Grade criteria SSU Academic Services (2013) available from**:

http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/generic-grade-criteria-with-grades-level-5.pdf

This assessment will enable students to demonstrate in full or in part the learning outcomes identified in the unit descriptors.

# Late Submissions

Students are reminded that:

1. i.If this assessment is submitted late i.e. within 5 working days of the submission deadline, the mark will be capped at 40% if a pass mark is achieved;
2. ii.If this assessment is submitted later than 5 working days after the submission deadline, the work will be regarded as a non-submission and will be awarded a zero;
3. iii.If this assessment is being submitted as a referred piece of work (second or third attempt) then it must be submitted by the deadline date; any Refer assessment submitted late will be regarded as a non-submission and will be awarded a zero.

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy-annex-1-assessment-regulations.pdf?t=1411116004479](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy-annex-1-assessment-regulations.pdf?t=1411116004479)

# Extenuating Circumstances

The University's Extenuating Circumstances procedure is in place if there are genuine circumstances that may prevent a student submitting an assessment. If students are not 'fit to study', they can either request an extension to the submission deadline of 5 working days or they can request to submit the assessment at the next opportunity (Defer).  In both instances students must submit an EC application with relevant evidence.   If accepted by the EC Panel there will be no academic penalty for late submission or non-submission dependent on what is requested.  Students are reminded that EC covers only short term issues (20 working days) and that if they experience longer term matters that impact on learning then they must contact a Student Achievement Officer for advice.

A summary of guidance notes for students is given below:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/extenuating-circumstances/extenuating-circumstances.aspx](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/extenuating-circumstances/extenuating-circumstances.aspx)



# Academic Misconduct

Any submission must be students' own work and, where facts or ideas have been used from other sources, these sources must be appropriately referenced. The University's Academic Handbook includes the definitions of all practices that will be deemed to constitute academic misconduct.  Students should check this link before submitting their work.

Procedures relating to student academic misconduct are given below:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/complaints-conduct/student-academic-misconduct.aspx](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/complaints-conduct/student-academic-misconduct.aspx)



**Ethics Policy**

The work being carried out by students must be in compliance with the Ethics Policy. Where there is an ethical issue, as specified within the Ethics Policy, then students will need an ethics release or an ethical approval prior to the start of the project.

The Ethics Policy is contained within Section 2S of the Academic Handbook:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2s-university-ethics-policy.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2s-university-ethics-policy.pdf)



**Anonymous Marking**

A copy of the University's Policy on Anonymous Marking, process details and student guidance on submission sheet completion can be found on the following links, which are also uploaded on the Student Portal.

Fact Sheet:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-fact-sheet.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-fact-sheet.pdf)



Process:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-process.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-process.pdf)



**Grade marking**

The University uses a letter grade scale for the marking of assessments. Unless students have been specifically informed otherwise their marked assignment will be awarded a letter grade. More detailed information on grade marking and the grade scale can be found on myCourse.

Policy: [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy.pdf)

Fact sheet:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-4/4o-grade-marking-briefing-for-students.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-4/4o-grade-marking-briefing-for-students.pdf)