# Southampton Solent University

# Assessment Brief

#
Assessment Details AE2

| Unit Title: | Web Design |
| --- | --- |
| Unit Code: | SWD500 |
| Unit Leader: | Martin Reid |
| Level: | 5 (FHEQ) |
| Assessment Title: | **Responsive Design Project Production** |
| Assessment Number: | AE2 |
| Assessment Type: | Software Product |
| Restrictions on Time/Length : | 6 HTML pages/screens |
| Individual/Group: | Individual |
| Assessment Weighting: | 70% |
| Issue Date: | Week commencing 4th January 2016 |
| Hand In Deadline: | **Friday 6th May 2016 by 22:00hrs** |
| Planned Feedback Date: | Within 4 weeks |
| Mode of Submission: | Online **MyCourse** |
| Number of copies to be submitted: | One |
|
# Anonymous Marking
  |
# This assessment will be exempt from anonymous marking as it falls within an exempt category under the University's Anonymous Marking Policy.
 |

# Assessment Task  - Responsive Design Project Production

_"Recently, an emergent discipline called " __responsive architecture__" has begun asking how physical spaces can __ __ respond __ __ to the presence of people passing through them."_ **(Marcotte 2010)**

#
This assessment (AE2) is a continuation of the work undertaken in AE1 which contained research methods, project specification and initial ideas.

Students will **construct** a fully working and tested responsive website, based on their initial research and planning already carried out. Students should also take note of any tutor feedback received for AE1.

It is important that students adhere to their **Criteria for Success** goals and apply these to their responsive design product; these goals will also be used as evidence of the success of the project as a whole.

**Recap of Project Scenario** (from AE1 brief)

**Creation of a fully responsive/adaptive website which adheres to current design trends and technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, Frameworks & jQuery.**  **You can incorporate frameworks and libraries within your site but they should be used to complements your own code rather than using them "off the peg"**

Students are free to choose a topic for their site as long as what is presented covers the following:

1. 1.Typography
2. 2.Photographs/images (bitmap & vector)
3. 3.Layout variations – grids structures & priority of content over different devices
4. 4.Navigation – attention to mobile device navigation



**Recap of Project Outputs** (from AE1 brief)

1. 1.6 pages (or screens)
2. 2.Main and sub-navigation that works on both desk-top and mobile device
3. 3.The use of modern production methods such as HTML5, CSS3, Media Queries, Frameworks & jQuery (no need to include them all and you can use others
4. 4.Responsive design should include progression enhancement for high density screens and tablet devices in different orientations such as portrait/landscape.
5. 5.Implementation of responsive/adaptive images
6. 6.Implementation of responsive/adaptive typography
7. 7.Concept should adhere to current design trend for responsive design
8. 8.Concept should adhere to Human Computer Interaction (HCI) for both desktop and mobile interfaces.
9. 9.Concept should use a grid system that priorities content for different "break points"

**Submission details**

Completed website will need to be 'live' on the internet either using your own web space or the Edward server. It is important you test its responsiveness on a variety of devices; desk-top, smartphone & tablet.



**Students will submit the following:**

1. 1. **Evidence document containing:**

1. a)Screen captures of as 6 pages/screens
2. b)URL web address of websites location
3. c)Photograph/s the of responsive design working on a number of devices
4. d)Completed summary of **Criteria for Success** in way of reflection on project targets.

1. 2. **Product:**

1. a)Zipped file of completed website.



**The assessment is a MyCourse online submission consisting of two files: evidence document and website folder as a single Zipped upload.** **(50MB MAX)**

**Remember to name your file to upload like this: YOURSURNAME\_SWD500\_AE1 **



**References**

**MARCOTTE** , E.,2010. _Responsive Web Design._ [online] [viewed 8 September 2014].  Available from: [http://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design](http://alistapart.com/article/responsive-web-design)

# Assessment criteria and Learning Outcomes

** SWD500 – AE2 -** Responsive Design Project Production

|
**Navigation  -** Learning outcome: **P1**  weighting: 20%
Apply specialised digital media skills to the production of creative screen based media.
1. a)Navigation for "smaller screens
 |
| --- |
|   |
|   **Grid, column structure and use of negative space** - Learning outcome: **C1**  weighting: 20%
Use creativity and judgement in order to develop innovative design concepts that show awareness of relevant principles and methods

1. a)Grids systems – priority of content
2. b)Columns structure for flexible/fluid design
3. c)Appropriate use of negative space

  |
|   **Flexible images and responsive typography -  ** Learning outcome: **C1  ** weighting: 20% Use creativity and judgement in order to develop innovative design concepts that show awareness of relevant principles and methods
1. a)Flexible images
2. b)Responsible typography
  |
|   **Responsive Design Style -** Learning outcome: **P1  ** weighting:20%
Apply specialised digital media skills to the production of creative screen based media.
1. a)Design Style in respect to current trends
2. b)Desktop layout & structure
3. c)Design adapts on mobile devices

 |
|   **Reflection and Conclusions - Criteria for Success -** Learning outcome: T1, **T2  ** weighting:20% Communicate information, ideas and data effectively using appropriate media.
Reflect constructively on own performance, exercising judgement and identifying
means for improvement.
1. a)Evidence of testing for responsiveness
2. b)Meeting project success targets & summary
3. c)Final breakdown of would 74hrs project time was use for both A1 & AE2
   |

**Web Design**  **– SWD500 Assessment criteria AE2**

|   | **A1-A2** | **A3-A4** | **B1-B3** | **C1-C3** | **D1-D3** | **F1-F4** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Navigation  -**
LO: **P1**  (20%)  | Consistent competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical,technical, creative, scholarly skills,with indications of exceptional ability in some and understanding of professional contexts and expectations. ** ** | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative, skills, exceeds level expectations in some aspects andshows awareness of professional contexts and expectations. | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative skills, with indications of more developed ability in someareas and an awareness of professional contexts and expectations. ** ** |  Achieves a basic level of competence in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative skills, with more developed capability in at least one areaand an awareness of professional contexts and expectations | Achieves basic competence in all the required specialised practical, technical, creative skills, with little awareness of professional contexts and expectations. | Marginally fails or fails to achieve basic competence in (some of) the required specialisedpractical, technical, creative skills, with only slight or noawareness of professional contexts and expectations |
| ** ** |
| **Grid, column structure and use of negative space** –
LO: **C1**  (20%) | Design methods that consistently address/solve complex, unfamiliar & unpredictable issues problems ** ** | Applies & refines appropriate methods to address/solve complex unfamiliar, unpredictable issues/problems. ** ** | Selects & applies appropriate methods to address/solve complex, unfamiliar, unpredictable issues/problem ** ** | Uses appropriate often given methods to analyse complex unfamiliar and all on predictable issues problems with some evaluation and synthesis of information ** ** | Uses an appropriate methods to analyse complex issues/problems with little evidence & evaluation for synthesis ** ** | Superficial analysis of complex issues & problems, Relies on description rather than analysis with no evidence of the valuation or synthesis ** ** |
| ** ** |
| **Flexible images
& responsive
typography **LO:** C1  **(20%) | Designs methods that convincingly address/solve complex, unfamiliar and unpredictable issues/ problems** **| Applies and refines appropriate methods to address/solve complex, unfamiliar and unpredictable issues/problems | Selects and applies appropriate methods to address/solve complex, unfamiliar/unpredictable issues/problems | Uses appropriate (often given) methods to analyse complex/ unfamiliar and/or unpredictable issues/problems, with some evaluation and synthesis of information**  **| Uses appropriate methods to analyse complex issues/problems, with little evidence of evaluation or synthesis | Superficial analysis of complex issues/problems, lacking in evaluation or synthesis**  ** |
| ** Responsive design style -** LO: **P1 (**20%) | Consistent competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical,technical, creative, scholarly skills,with indications of exceptional ability in some and understanding of professional contexts and expectations. ** ** | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative, skills, exceeds level expectations in some aspects andshows awareness of professional contexts and expectations. | Competence, within broad parameters, in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative skills, with indications of more developed ability in someareas and an awareness of professional contexts and expectations. ** ** |  Achieves a basic level of competence in all the required specialised practical, technical,creative skills, with more developed capability in at least one areaand an awareness of professional contexts and expectations | Achieves basic competence in all the required specialised practical, technical, creative skills, with little awareness of professional contexts and expectations. | Marginally fails or fails to achieve basic competence in (some of) the required specialisedpractical, technical, creative skills, with only slight or noawareness of professional contexts and expectations |
| **Reflection and Conclusions, Criteria for Success -**
LO: T1, **T2  ** (20%) | Critical reflection and self evaluation sustained and exceptionally insightful ** ** | Reflection consistently critical and insightful. ** ** | Reflection generates a number of critical insights. ** ** | Satisfactory reflection with some insights. ** ** | Limited reflection with few insights. ** ** | Minimal/inadequate or absent reflection lacks insight. ** ** |

**Derived from the Level 5 generic Grade criteria SSU Academic Services (2013) available from**:

http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/generic-grade-criteria-with-grades-level-5.pdf

This assessment will enable students to demonstrate in full or in part the learning outcomes identified in the unit descriptors.

# Late Submissions

Students are reminded that:

1. i.If this assessment is submitted late i.e. within 5 working days of the submission deadline, the mark will be capped at 40% if a pass mark is achieved;
2. ii.If this assessment is submitted later than 5 working days after the submission deadline, the work will be regarded as a non-submission and will be awarded a zero;
3. iii.If this assessment is being submitted as a referred piece of work (second or third attempt) then it must be submitted by the deadline date; any Refer assessment submitted late will be regarded as a non-submission and will be awarded a zero.

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy-annex-1-assessment-regulations.pdf?t=1411116004479](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy-annex-1-assessment-regulations.pdf?t=1411116004479)

# Extenuating Circumstances

The University's Extenuating Circumstances procedure is in place if there are genuine circumstances that may prevent a student submitting an assessment. If students are not 'fit to study', they can either request an extension to the submission deadline of 5 working days or they can request to submit the assessment at the next opportunity (Defer).  In both instances students must submit an EC application with relevant evidence.   If accepted by the EC Panel there will be no academic penalty for late submission or non-submission dependent on what is requested.  Students are reminded that EC covers only short term issues (20 working days) and that if they experience longer term matters that impact on learning then they must contact a Student Achievement Officer for advice.

A summary of guidance notes for students is given below:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/extenuating-circumstances/extenuating-circumstances.aspx](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/extenuating-circumstances/extenuating-circumstances.aspx)



# Academic Misconduct

Any submission must be students' own work and, where facts or ideas have been used from other sources, these sources must be appropriately referenced. The University's Academic Handbook includes the definitions of all practices that will be deemed to constitute academic misconduct.  Students should check this link before submitting their work.

Procedures relating to student academic misconduct are given below:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/complaints-conduct/student-academic-misconduct.aspx](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/support/official-documents/complaints-conduct/student-academic-misconduct.aspx)



**Ethics Policy**

The work being carried out by students must be in compliance with the Ethics Policy. Where there is an ethical issue, as specified within the Ethics Policy, then students will need an ethics release or an ethical approval prior to the start of the project.

The Ethics Policy is contained within Section 2S of the Academic Handbook:

[http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2s-university-ethics-policy.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2s-university-ethics-policy.pdf)



**Anonymous Marking**

A copy of the University's Policy on Anonymous Marking, process details and student guidance on submission sheet completion can be found on the following links, which are also uploaded on the Student Portal.

Fact Sheet:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-fact-sheet.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-fact-sheet.pdf)



Process:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-process.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/policies-procedures-guidelines/anonymous-marking-process.pdf)



**Grade marking**

The University uses a letter grade scale for the marking of assessments. Unless students have been specifically informed otherwise their marked assignment will be awarded a letter grade. More detailed information on grade marking and the grade scale can be found on myCourse.

Policy: [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-2/2o-assessment-policy.pdf)

Fact sheet:   [http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-4/4o-grade-marking-briefing-for-students.pdf](http://portal.solent.ac.uk/documents/academic-services/academic-handbook/section-4/4o-grade-marking-briefing-for-students.pdf)